♪♪ (Drum and Bugle Corps) ♪♪
Narrator:
Welcome to the West Wing Week!
Your guide to everything
that's happening at 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue.
This week... The President
honored our nation's top
scientists and innovators;
nominated a new Secretary
of the Interior; and worked
towards reducing gun violence;
enacting immigration reform;
and reducing our deficit in
a balanced way.
That's February 1st to February
7th or "What's Up, Camera Man?"
The President:
These reforms would reduce
our government's bill --
(noise from cameraman's mic)
(laughter)
What's up, cameraman?
The President:
Come on, guys!
(laughter)
Narrator:
On Friday, the President
honored the recipients of
the 2011 National Medals of
Science and National Medals
of Technology and Innovation.
The President:
Thanks to the sacrifices they've
made, the chances they've taken,
the gallons of coffee
they've consumed --
(laughter)
-- we now have batteries
that power everything from
cell phones to electric cars.
We're learning to grow
organs in the lab.
And better understand what's
happening in our deepest oceans.
Narrator:
On Superbowl Sunday, the
President sat down with "CBS
News" to discuss a range of
issues currently facing our
nation, including combat roles
for America's servicewomen.
The President:
I meet extraordinary women in
uniform who can do everything
that a man can and more.
One of my military aides
is about five feet tall,
probably weighs about
a hundred pounds,
you put a 50-pound pack on her
and she can do things that you
or me would keel over doing.
Narrator:
On Monday, the President
traveled to the seat of winter,
Minneapolis, Minnesota, where he
met with men and women who are
on the frontlines of fighting to
prevent and reduce gun violence
in our communities, including
local police officers,
community leaders and advocates
for those who have been touched
personally by gun violence.
The President:
Now is the time for action.
That we're not going to
wait until the next Newtown,
or the next Aurora.
We're not going to wait until
after we lose more innocent
Americans on street corners
all across the country.
Not going to wait until
somebody else's father
or son are murdered.
Narrator:
On Tuesday, the President hosted
a meeting with rogressive
and labor leaders to discuss the
ways in which immigration reform
would strengthen the economy
in communities all across
the country.
The President then took the
podium at the White House
briefing room to address looming
automatic budget cuts that will
cost jobs and slow
down our recovery,
also known as "the sequester."
The President:
Let's keep on chipping away
at this problem together as
Democrats and Republicans
to give our workers and our
businesses the support that
they need to thrive in the
weeks and months ahead.
Narrator:
Later, the President dialed
up the head coach of the
Baltimore Ravens.
The President:
I just want to say
congratulations.
I know it was a bumpy season
up and down and for you guys
to just stay steady the
way you did is really,
is really a great feat.
Narrator:
The President then returned
to the Roosevelt Room,
this time for a meeting with
business leaders to discuss ways
in which immigration reform
would benefit their businesses
by ensuring that all employees
and employers are playing by the
same set of rules.
West Wing Week caught up with
Cody Keenan in the Speech
Writing Office who is already
hard at work helping the
President write next week's
Address to a Joint Session
of Congress.
Cody Keenan:
So we are one week and five
hours from the first State
of the Union Address of the
President's second term.
Last night we sent him the first
draft and just met with him for
about an hour.
And he likes it, which
is a big relief for us.
The State of the Union
process began last November
after his reelection.
These are huge binders put
together by policy staff
that are assistant --
Behind the Camera:
Wait! Do you mean Laura Dean?
You mean Laura Dean?
Behind the Camera:
Laura Dean?
Laura Dean:
Catching up the binders.
(laughter)
Narrator:
On Wednesday, the President
announced Sally Jewell as his
nominee to head up the
Department of Interior.
And at the same time
congratulated outgoing
Secretary Ken Salazar.
(applause)
The President:
Even as Sally spent the
majority of her career
outside of Washington, where
I might add the majority of
our Interior is located --
(laughter)
-- she is an expert on the
energy and climate issues that
are going to shape our future.
She has shown that a company
with more than $1 billion in
sales can do the right
thing for our planet.
Narrator:
On Thursday, the President,
the Vice President and the
First Lady attended the
Annual Prayer Breakfast,
an event that has been held on
the first Thursday of February
every year since 1953.
The President:
In the midst of
all these debates,
we must keep that same humility
that Dr. King and Lincoln and
Washington and all our great
leaders understood is at the
core of true leadership.
And our task as citizens is
to spend our days with open
hearts and open minds.
Narrator:
Then, the President met with
members of his Cabinet to talk
about immigration reform.
And hosted Magic Johnson for
a meeting at the White House.
The President:
Magic Johnson, sir!
Narrator:
To find out more information
about any of these topics or
to see complete videos of these
events, go to WhiteHouse.gov.
And thanks again for checking
out your West Wing Week!
The President:
I want to congratulate these
extraordinary Americans once
again for all their
accomplishments.
I want to wish our military
aides the best of luck as they
attempt to read the citations --
(laughter)
-- because I can assure you
they practiced hard on this
all week long.
You good? You feel good?
(laughter)
All right.
There are a lot of syllables
in some of these things.
(laughter)
All right.
And I won't know the
difference; but they will!
(laughter)
The President:
All right,
congratulations everybody.
Come on.
(applause)